README.md, before:

# Computational Geometry library

This repository contains a library of computational geometry implemented in Moonbit. 
The library provides a variety of correlation operations for calculating geometry, 
and is expected to cover the following areas: point-line correlation, 
polygon correlation, triangle correlation, circle correlation, 
convex hull correlation, 3D geometric correlation, etc.

## Features

#### Point and line correlation

- **cross product**: Calculates the cross product of two vectors formed by three points.
- **dot product**: Calculates the dot product of two vectors formed by three points.
- **distance**: Calculates the distance between two points.
- **collinear**: Checks whether three points are collinear.
- **on segment1**: Checks whether a point is on a line segment,including the endpoints.
- **on segment2**: Checks whether a point is on a line segment,excluding the endpoints.
- **same side**: Determines whether two points lie on the same side of a line.
- **opposite side**: Determines whether two points lie on opposite sides of a line.
- **symmetric point**: Calculates the symmetric point (reflection) of a point with respect to a line.
- **intersected**: Checks whether two line segments intersect.
- **intersected point**: Calculates the intersection point of two line segments.
- **point to line**: Calculates the projection point of a given point onto a line defined by two points.
- **distance of point to line**: Calculates the distance between a point and a line.
- **point to line segment**: Calculates the projection point of a given point onto a line segment.

#### Polygon correlation

- **is sign**: Check the sign of floating-point numbers.
- **is convex**: Check whether a polygon is convex.
- **point inside convex**: Checks whether a point is inside a convex polygon.
- **point inside polygon**: Checks whether a point is inside a polygon.
- **segment inside polygon**: Checks whether a line segment is inside a polygon.

#### Triangle correlation

- **circumcenter**: Calculates the circumcenter of a triangle.
- **incenter**: Calculates the incenter of a triangle.
- **perpencenter**: Calculates the perpencenter of a triangle.

#### Circle correlation

- **intersect_line_circle**: Checks whether a line intersects with a circle.
- **intersect_segment_circle**: Checks whether a line segment intersects with a circle.
- **intersect_circle_circle**: Checks whether two circles intersect.
- **dot_to_circle**: Checks the closest point on a circle to a given point.
- **intersection_line_circle**: Calculates the intersection points of a line and a circle.
- **intersection_circle_circle**: Calculates the intersection points of two circles.

#### Sphere correlation

- **angle**: Give the latitude and longitude of the earth and calculate the central angle of the circle.
- **line_dist**: Knowing the latitude and longitude, calculate the straight-line distance between two points on the earth.
- **sphere_dist**: Knowing the latitude and longitude, calculate the spherical distance between two points on the earth.

## Usages

For how to use,see the [core](https://github.com/CMoonBack/Computational-geometry/tree/main/src/lib) in the repository.

Specific usages are being written.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Contact

For any questions or suggestions, please contact [2214559347@qq.com].

Commit message:

update some preparatory functions of 3D geometry in 3Dgeometry.mbt and add README, change the version to 0.2.0

README.md, after:

# Computational Geometry library

This repository contains a library of computational geometry implemented in Moonbit. 
The library provides a variety of correlation operations for calculating geometry, 
and is expected to cover the following areas: point-line correlation, 
polygon correlation, triangle correlation, circle correlation, 
convex hull correlation, 3D geometric correlation, etc.

## Features

### 2D geometric

#### Point and line correlation

- **cross product**: Calculates the cross product of two vectors formed by three points.
- **dot product**: Calculates the dot product of two vectors formed by three points.
- **distance**: Calculates the distance between two points.
- **collinear**: Checks whether three points are collinear.
- **on segment1**: Checks whether a point is on a line segment,including the endpoints.
- **on segment2**: Checks whether a point is on a line segment,excluding the endpoints.
- **same side**: Determines whether two points lie on the same side of a line.
- **opposite side**: Determines whether two points lie on opposite sides of a line.
- **symmetric point**: Calculates the symmetric point (reflection) of a point with respect to a line.
- **intersected**: Checks whether two line segments intersect.
- **intersected point**: Calculates the intersection point of two line segments.
- **point to line**: Calculates the projection point of a given point onto a line defined by two points.
- **distance of point to line**: Calculates the distance between a point and a line.
- **point to line segment**: Calculates the projection point of a given point onto a line segment.

#### Polygon correlation

- **is sign**: Check the sign of floating-point numbers.
- **is convex**: Check whether a polygon is convex.
- **point inside convex**: Checks whether a point is inside a convex polygon.
- **point inside polygon**: Checks whether a point is inside a polygon.
- **segment inside polygon**: Checks whether a line segment is inside a polygon.

#### Triangle correlation

- **circumcenter**: Calculates the circumcenter of a triangle.
- **incenter**: Calculates the incenter of a triangle.
- **perpencenter**: Calculates the perpencenter of a triangle.

#### Circle correlation

- **intersect_line_circle**: Checks whether a line intersects with a circle.
- **intersect_segment_circle**: Checks whether a line segment intersects with a circle.
- **intersect_circle_circle**: Checks whether two circles intersect.
- **dot_to_circle**: Checks the closest point on a circle to a given point.
- **intersection_line_circle**: Calculates the intersection points of a line and a circle.
- **intersection_circle_circle**: Calculates the intersection points of two circles.

#### Sphere correlation

- **angle**: Give the latitude and longitude of the earth and calculate the central angle of the circle.
- **line_dist**: Knowing the latitude and longitude, calculate the straight-line distance between two points on the earth.
- **sphere_dist**: Knowing the latitude and longitude, calculate the spherical distance between two points on the earth.

### 3D geometric

#### Preparatory functions

- **cross product**: Calculates the cross product of two vectors.
- **dot product**: Calculates the dot product of two vectors.
- **subtract**: Subtracts two vectors.
- **pvec plane**: Calculates the normal vector of a plane using the cross product of two vectors formed from three points on the plane.
- **pvec point**: Calculates the cross product of two vectors formed by three points in 3D space.
- **distance3d**: Calculates the distance between two points.
- **vlen**: Calculates the length of a vector.


## Usages

For how to use,see the [core](https://github.com/CMoonBack/Computational-geometry/tree/main/src/lib) in the repository.

Specific usages are being written.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Contact

For any questions or suggestions, please contact [2214559347@qq.com].
